src/content/docs/collaborators/introduction.md, before:

---
title: 👥 Overview
description: high level overview of collaborators functionality
lastUpdated: 2025-06-04
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

**Collaborators** are how BackOps represents the companies and people working together to make your event happen. Whether it’s a vendor, artist team, crew lead, or production company, each collaborator serves as a container for the individuals and actions associated with that group.

### 🧭 What is a Collaborator?

At a high level, a **Collaborator** represents an external entity participating in your event. This could be:

- A production company
- A food or beverage vendor
- An artist or artist management team
- The event’s core producing entity

Each **User** in BackOps is tied to a Collaborator. This means permissions, access, and requests are scoped based on their role within that specific organization.

### 🔗 Example

At a music festival:

- The **Lighting Vendor** is one collaborator
- **Artist A’s Management Team** is another
- The **Food Court Vendor** is a third
- The **Festival Producer** is also a collaborator with internal staff attached

Each of these collaborators can have one or more users working within BackOps on their behalf.

---

## 🧭 Collaborator Interface

When you select a collaborator in BackOps, you’ll land on their **collaborator dashbaord**, with tabs across the top for several key sections:

- **Dashboard** – A summary view of activity, requests, and status
- **Advancing** – Used to submit technical needs and interact with assigned modules
- **Schedule** – A space to outline timelines, key dates, or work blocks
- **Contacts** – Shows contact info for key members of the collaborators team
- **Settings** – Manage user roles, access, and collaborator-specific preferences

Commit message:

Enhance collaborator documentation with detailed navigation and management instructions

src/content/docs/collaborators/introduction.md, after:

---
title: 👥 Overview
description: high level overview of collaborators functionality
lastUpdated: 2025-06-04
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

**Collaborators** are how BackOps represents the companies and people working together to make your event happen. Whether it’s a vendor, artist team, crew lead, or production company, each collaborator serves as a container for the individuals and actions associated with that group.

### 🧭 What is a Collaborator?

At a high level, a **Collaborator** represents an external entity participating in your event. This could be:

- A production company
- A food or beverage vendor
- An artist or artist management team
- The event’s core producing entity

Each **User** in BackOps is tied to a Collaborator. This means permissions, access, and requests are scoped based on their role within that specific organization.

### 🔗 Example

At a music festival:

- The **Lighting Vendor** is one collaborator
- **Artist A’s Management Team** is another
- The **Food Court Vendor** is a third
- The **Festival Producer** is also a collaborator with internal staff attached

Each of these collaborators can have one or more users working within BackOps on their behalf.

---

## 🧭 Collaborator Interface

When you select a collaborator from the left hand navigation in BackOps, you’ll land on their **collaborator dashbaord**, with tabs across the top for several key sections:

- **Dashboard** – A summary view of activity, requests, and status
- **Advancing** – Used to submit technical needs and interact with assigned modules
- **Schedule** – A space to outline timelines, key dates, or work blocks
- **Contacts** – Shows contact info for key members of the collaborators team
- **Settings** – Manage user roles, access, and collaborator-specific preferences

# 🗂️ Collaborator Management Interface

Managing collaborators across your event is simple with the **Collaborator Management Interface**, accessible via the main left-hand navigation.

## 📋 Viewing and Navigating Collaborators

- In the **left-side navigation bar**, under the **Collaborators** section, click **Manage Collaborators**.
- You’ll land on a **table view** showing all collaborators currently added to the event.
- Each row displays high-level collaborator info for quick reference.
- **Clicking on any collaborator** will instantly open that collaborator’s profile—taking you to their **Dashboard** and full set of tools (Advancing, Schedule, Contacts, and Settings).

## ➕ Adding a Collaborator

- In the **top right corner**, click **Add Collaborator**.
- Enter the name of the collaborator (e.g., “Lighting Vendor” or “Stage A Artist”).
- Once created, the new collaborator is immediately added to the event and available for configuration.

## 🔍 Searching Collaborators

- Use the **search bar** in the top right of the interface to quickly find a collaborator by name.
- Especially useful for large events with dozens (or hundreds) of collaborators.
